# Factors Influencing Cancer Death Rates in-US-Counties
From the designed model, it is clear that the target_death-rate due to cancer is dependant on factor of percentage of population aged between 18 to 25 who are graduated, percentage of employed individuals over 16 years old, incidence rate of cancer, median income of household in a county, percentage of unemployed population over 16 years old, percentage of population with no coverage or atleast one coverage of insurance.
When talking about people with no insurance coverage in a county, a higher percentage of individuals with a high school diploma or graduate degree, lower unemployment rate, and higher percentage of individuals with health insurance coverage are associated with lower deathrate. On the other hand, higher disease incidence and lower median income are associated with higher death rate. The stats show that if the unemployment percent increases by 1%, the death-rate will increase by a factor of 0.64. Also, if the population with no health insurance increases by 1%, then the death rate of a county will increase by 0.28 times. The numbers and relations between independent and dependent variables are vise versa in the case of the population with at least
 
one health insurance i.e the death rate is going down. Among all factors, income of a household and option of insurance are main variables judging the response variable.
The one important question to look into from this research is, whether the wealth of an individual, judges how long he/she can survive in case of cancer? This seems plausible if we are looking at the regressors, they are inclined towards the financial status of the individual. As we speak of wealth, when we consider a range of counties, each case in the dataset talks indirectly whether a county is rice or not. This suggests a relation between “death rate due to cancer differs between richer countries to poor countries” . But this hypothesis needs additional data to do research on.
